# 470. Implement Rand10() Using Rand7()

* Medium
*   Given the **API** `rand7()` that generates a uniform random integer in the range `[1, 7]`, write a function `rand10()` that generates a uniform random integer in the range `[1, 10]`. You can only call the API `rand7()`, and you shouldn't call any other API. Please **do not** use a language's built-in random API.

    Each test case will have one **internal** argument `n`, the number of times that your implemented function `rand10()` will be called while testing. Note that this is **not an argument** passed to `rand10()`.

### Analysis&#x20;

I must admit I don't get what the question is saying when I first tried it, therefore my first solution looks like this:&#x20;

```
# The rand7() API is already defined for you.
# def rand7():
# @return a random integer in the range 1 to 7

class Solution:
    def rand10(self):
        """
        :rtype: int
        """
        i=int((rand7()/7*10)//1)
        return i;
```

Yet what this solution fails to do is to have equal possibilities of generating numbers among 1 to 7. For example, the number 1 is only generated if rand7 yields 1, but number 3 is generated when rand7 yields either 3 or 4.&#x20;

So how can we solve this problem? We go for larger numbers. If we use rand7 twice, like (rand7-1)\*7+rand7-1, this will give us a number from 0 to 48. Now if we remove those larger than 40 and only take the last digit as the result we generated, we would now have 10 digits generated with the same possibility. Therefore the problem is solved.&#x20;

```
class Solution:
    def rand10(self):
        rand40 = 40
        while rand40 >= 40:
            rand40 = (rand7() - 1) * 7 + rand7() - 1
        return rand40 % 10 + 1
```

Or, is it?&#x20;

We see in the previous solution, results 40\~48 are abandoned, that means we are wasting 9/49=18.4% of the results. So how can we improve this? Well we can go for bigger values. If we take more and more times of rand7, we will eventually have more available results. By contrast, the number of result we might abandon can never exceed 9. Therefore the bigger we go, the less "waste" we will produce. But whether that produces other forms of waste is another thing to discuss in the future.&#x20;
