# 309. Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock with Cooldown

* Medium
*   You are given an array `prices` where `prices[i]` is the price of a given stock on the `ith` day.

    Find the maximum profit you can achieve. You may complete as many transactions as you like (i.e., buy one and sell one share of the stock multiple times) with the following restrictions:

    * After you sell your stock, you cannot buy stock on the next day (i.e., cooldown one day).

    **Note:** You may not engage in multiple transactions simultaneously (i.e., you must sell the stock before you buy again).

### Analysis

All of these stock problems are similar except for minor modifications. Here, we have to make sure there is an cool down between selling and buying. How do we do this?&#x20;

First, we can try to make sure we will not be buying after we sell. This is achievable by manually mark the next days price to be inf. However, since we will not reach an global optimization by finding all the local maximizations in this case, this solution is not going to work.&#x20;

Example: 1 2 3 0 2&#x20;

If we are to see this without the mind of an program, we will be able to spot that we should buy at 1,sell at 2, buy at 0 and sell at 2, eventually giving us 1+2=3 as profit.&#x20;

But what will the program do if we are using the above solution? It buys at 1, tries 2, and then 3 and discovered that selling at 3 is a better option. Then it is not allowed to buy at 0, so it has nothing to do afterwards. This is certainly not how we like it.&#x20;

So, we can try the other way around, making sure that if we buy, we are not selling the day before. What does this mean?&#x20;

Rember in the solution for previous problems, we are combining the profits together by recording the second 'buying' price to be the actual price - the profit from the previous sell.&#x20;

Therefore,we can record the profit from selling two days before. If we are to sell today, that means the profit of selling yesterday is no longer helpful, we need to see the profit of selling the day before yesterday.&#x20;

### Solution (Python)

```
class Solution:
    def maxProfit(self, prices: List[int]) -> int:
        buy=float('inf')
        sell=0
        sell_old=0

        for i in prices:

            buy=min(i-sell_old,buy)
            sell_old=sell
            sell=max(i-buy,sell)

        return sell
```
